# Code4lib 2020 Community Support Squad Transparency Report

## Summary

The Community Support Squad (CSS) worked throughout the conference to respond to violations of the Code4Lib Code of Conduct. Natasha Allen and Eric Phetteplace were co-coordinators. Shawn Averkamp, Jeremy Friesen, Bobbi Fox, Mike Giarlo, Wayne Graham, Ann Marie Mesco, Chad Nelson, and Anne Slaughter served as Community Support Volunteers (CSVs) in online and in-person capacities. Ann Marie Mesco and Ken Rose were our LPC Liaisons this year. CSVs were provided with background reading before the conference, and an online training session was held a few days prior to the Pittsburgh conference.

There were at least two CSVs on duty during all official conference proceedings, and during every shift there was an additional CSV dedicated to monitoring online activity. CSVs were identified by black and white striped lanyards and posted in the back of the main room. CSVs were made available to take reports in person, via web form, and by phone using a Google Voice number managed by Natasha Allen. Natasha’s Google Voice number was also used as the overnight reporting number. We used a private Slack channel to coordinate logistics, discuss incidents, and come to consensus on responses.

### Incidents and Responses

1.  A report was submitted to the online incident report form from an attendee with a helpful suggestion to edit the signage for the gender-neutral restrooms to indicate whether or not the restrooms had in-stall trash cans. We took their suggestion upon consultation with the LPC and edited the signage to include information about whether or not the restrooms had trash cans in their stalls.
2.  A conference attendee sent an email indicating that a colleague, who also attended the conference, may have unintentionally exposed others to COVID-19. The individual had not been tested as the symptoms were mild, but felt it was important to let the CSS know. Natasha forwarded the information on to the LPC and helped draft a response to the community for transparency purposes. The individual later tested negative for the disease and a follow-up response was sent out to the community.

### Recommendations

The coordinators debriefed with each other remotely via Zoom. The CSVs were debriefed during an asynchronous Slack conversation. Here are our recommendations we hope to pass on to the next LPC group and/or the next CSV committee.

1.  The 2020 coordinators agree with last year’s CSS that the community needs more specifically articulated and codified values. In addition to the Code of Conduct, this would ground the community’s understanding and modeling of acceptable behavior.
    + We believe one of the concrete ways to establish codified values is by creating a process for approving change requests to the CoC on GitHub. We recommend that current CSS Coordinators establish a process with which to send notification to the community of any major change requests in the CoC. This will allow those unfamiliar with or uncomfortable with using GitHub to be a part of the approval process. We recommend leaving open the opportunity for public comment for a period of 7 days, then approving the changes after the 7-day period is complete. Questioned or flagged changes will need to be resolved before approval. Minor changes such as spelling or grammar issues can be changed at the coordinators’ discretion. Of course, any community members can sound off on all changes, including minor ones, given CoC changes occur publicly via GitHub pull requests.
2.  We agree with the 2019 CSS Coordinators that this group should be a year-round standing committee. As Code4Lib is more than an annual conference, the official enforcement of the Code of Conduct should not be limited to the conference. We recommend that current coordinators submit themselves as the current committee members for a period of one year, assuming they are able and willing, and that at least 1-3 more people volunteer to monitor the Google group and web form submissions and discuss any violations that arise regularly during that 1-year period.
3.  We strongly recommend that, at the very least, conference organizers send out a simple post-conference survey every year to gather additional feedback from attendees. A follow-up survey of attendees would be generally useful for the incoming LPC. We recommend providing a space for CoC incidents to be reported as well as an (optional) contact information field to be used for the express purpose of soliciting volunteers for the next year. We noticed multiple committees this year, including our own, struggled to find enough volunteers to carry out duties related to the conference. This survey question could provide a pool of potential volunteers to contact for the following year.
    + A more ambitious, related, goal would be to develop an entirely separate C4L conference committee tasked with developing and sending out a yearly survey and potentially coordinating the pool of volunteers. Anyone who might be interested in joining this group for the years 2020-2021 can message Natasha Allen @natasha on slack or email her at [ndallen@umich.edu](mailto:ndallen@umich.edu)

Submitted by Natasha Allen and Eric Phetteplace
